"Experimentation 1"

[stops game from blurting out container contents while container is closed]
Rule for printing room description details of a closed container:
    stop.

Rule for printing the name of a closed container (called C) while taking inventory:
    say "[printed name of C]";
    omit contents in listing.

[allows reading books and stuff]
A thing has some text called reading-material.
The reading-material of a thing is usually "".

Understand the command "read" as something new.
Reading is an action applying to one thing and requiring light.
Understand "read [something]" as reading.

A check reading rule:
    if the reading-material of the noun is "" begin;
        try examining the noun instead;
    end if.

Carry out reading:
    say "[reading-material of the noun]".

To LB: [creates a line break function]
    say "[line break]".

When play begins:
    say "You are a prestigious scientist working at MIT. While unknown the the world, your pseudonym Dr. C. Niall G. Niess is very popular. One day, you come into work like always, no doubt expecting to create miracles. Yet something is off about today.";
    LB. [the line break function in use]

Laboratory is a room.
"A sterile white lab, [one of]smelling faintly of formaldehyde[or]bathed in clean white light[or] almost obsessively organized[at random]. This is really your home, a home of wonderful science.".

The penknife is a thing.
The description is "A small knife. Not really a box opener, but it works.".
The player carries the penknife.
The penknife unlocks the small box.

The small box is closed and locked.
The small box is openable and lockable.
A small box is in Laboratory.
The description of the small box is "A plain cardboard box.".

In the small box is a cat.
A cat is a thing.
The description of cat is "A fat, ginger tomcat named, weirdly enough, Mrs. Snuggly.".
Instead of attacking the cat:
    say "The cat mrowls angrily, dodging your feeble blow. It slices your leg, leaving marks. Ouch.";
    now the cat is in Laboratory.

In the small box is a adventure letter.
The adventure letter is a thing. 
Understand "letter" as the adventure letter. 
The description of the adventure letter is "A simple letter, on what appears to be old papyrus. It's fanciful calligraphy calls to mind old English letters, and it smells of mystique. Try 'read letter' to read this mysterious parchment."
The reading-material of the adventure letter is "Type 'Adventure' to get started on a journey through space and time. Excitement awaits![line break]".

The test tube is a thing.
The test tube is on the lab table.
The description of the test tube is "A test tube, with a bubbling green fluid inside.".

The lab table is a supporter.
The lab table is fixed in place.
The lab table is in Laboratory.
The description of the lab table is "A lab table is in the middle of the room, covered with mechanical and chemical gizmos.".

A weapon is a kind of thing.
A weapon has a number called dmgWeap. [the damage of the weapon]
The dmgWeap of a weapon is  0.

The AK-47 is a weapon.
The player carries the AK-47.
The description of the AK-47 is "An AK-47. Fires 7.62x39mm ammo. Very dangerous.".
The dmgWeap of AK-47 is 10.
Understand "ak" and "ak47" as the AK-47.

A ammunition is a kind of thing.
A ammunition has a number called dmgAmmo. [the damage of the ammo]
The dmgAmmo of a ammunition is 0.
A ammunition has a number called quantityAmmo. [the amount of ammo in a magazine of ammo]
The quantityAmmo is usually 0.

The 7.62 clip is a ammunition.
The player carries the 7.62 clip.
The description of the 7.62 clip is "A 30 round magazine of 7.62x39mm, with [quantityAmmo] rounds in it.".
The quantityAmmo of the 7.62 clip is 30.
The dmgAmmo of the 7.62 clip is 5. 
Understand "762" and "clip" as the 7.62 clip.

[Kickstarts the adventure.]
Adventuring is an action applying to nothing.
Understand "Adventure" as adventuring.
AdventuredCheck is a number that varies.
AdventuredCheck is initially 0.
Instead of adventuring:
    If AdventuredCheck is 0 begin;
        now the AK-47 is in Laboratory;
        now the 7.62 clip is in Laboratory;
        now the test tube is in Laboratory;
        now the small box is in Laboratory;
        now the adventure letter is in Laboratory;
        now the cat is in Laboratory;
        now the penknife is in Laboratory;
        now the player is in Middle of Nowhere;
    end if.

[The real game. Everything above can be discarded once I've got this good enough. Some stuff above might need to be kept -> SO PAY ATTENTION! ][
stat bars        -hunger/thirst/temp (player/desert)
possible threats - sandstorms, scorpions, snakes, tornadoes?, flash floods?
food sources     - must google desert flora/fauna
water sources    - cacti, rain?, blood?, dew, google some more.
Temp. control    - include various clothes and crafting w/ skin/feathers/animal hides
mission          - rescue or survive several months. obviously rescue is the real goal.
fun stuff        - crashed car/airplane?, attacking nomads?, an oasis?, abandoned villages and wells?
locations        - caverns, cliffs, dried out river, a rain shadow (mountains then sea)]

[descriptions to use later
The sun beats down on the hot sands.
The heat of the desert oppresses the scant amount of life.
The area appears to be an erg, or a sand sea. ]

Middle of Nowhere is a room.
The printed name of Middle of Nowhere is "The Middle of Nowhere".
The description of Middle of Nowhere is "The vast desert stretches around you. To the east lies a mountain range.".

Swirling Sands is east of Middle of Nowhere.
The description of Swirling Sands is "The winds slowly drift sand across the dunes. To the east, mountains await.".

Mountain Base is east of Swirling Sands.
The description of Mountain Base is "A familiar figure stands tall above you: the mountain range. Under the shadow of this mountain lies a cave to the northeast.".
Instead of going east in Mountain Base:
    say "The mountain bars your passage. It is too steep for you to climb, sidestep or pass through the mountain. Yet the mountain isn't as solid as it seems.".
Instead of going up in Mountain Base:
    say "The mountain bars your passage. It is too steep for you to climb, sidestep or pass through the mountain. Yet the mountain isn't as solid as it seems.".

Cave is northeast of Mountain Base.
The description of Cave is "A cave hidden under the mountain, with a passage deep down into the underground.".
Cave is dark. [Now Cave is lit]

Ocean Beachside is east of Mountain Base.
The description of Ocean Beachside is "The sounds of the sea are radically different from the silence of the desert. The ocean is as barren as the desert, but underneath lies a multitude of oceanic life."

