"Combat Experiment"

Section -- Code

To say lb:
    say "[line break]".

Arena is a room.
The description of Arena is "A pure white, empty gladitorial arena. [lb]A target dummy lies in a corner.".

Attack Dummy is a man in Arena.
The HP of Attack Dummy is 1000. 
[1,000 HP should be enough for now.]
[especially when i need to recode the attack command]
The description of Attack Dummy is "A training dummy, shaded a flesh color and filled with padding.".

A person has a number called HP.

pHP is a number that varies.
pHP is initially 100.

maxpHP is a number that varies.
maxpHP is initially 100.

When play begins:
    now the right hand status line is "HP: [pHP]/[maxpHP]".

A thing has a number called quantity.
The quantity of a thing is usually 1.

A ammunition is a kind of thing.
A ammunition has a number called AmmoDamage.

A weapon is a kind of thing.
A weapon has a number called WeaponDamage.

AK-47 is a thing.
AK-47 is a weapon.
AK-47 is in Arena.
The WeaponDamage of AK-47 is 10.
The description of AK-47 is "An AK-47.".

7.62 ammo is a thing.
7.62 ammo is ammunition.
7.62 ammo is in Arena.
The AmmoDamage of 7.62 ammo is 5.
The indefinite article of 7.62 ammo is "some".
The description of 7.62 ammo is "Some 7.62 ammo."

Understand the command "attack" as something new.
Understand the command "kill" as something new.
Understand the command "destroy" as something new.
Understand the command "break" as something new.
Understand the command "murder" as something new.
Understand the command "smash" as something new.
Understand the command "crack" as something new.
Understand the command "punch" as something new.
Understand the command "fight" as something new.
Understand the command "thump" as something new.
Understand the command "hit" as something new.
Understand the command "torture" as something new.
Understand the command "wreck" as something new.

AttackingRedefined is an action applying to two things.
Understand "attack [something] with [weapon]" as AttackingRedefined.

Instead of AttackingRedefined:
    say "bang!". [do some fancy math math]

Instead of jumping: say "Boing!".

Section -- Notes
[
Attempts to create an attack/defend system
must figure out duplicate items
do leveling up?
]
