"Reanimation" by neophyte.
The story headline is "A necromantic nightmare".

Include Basic Screen Effects by Emily Short. 
Use verbose room descriptions.

Test me with "jump / look / z"
[Order of Code:
   -S 1   - Before Gameplay
    S 1.1 - Player Character Setup
    S 1.2 - Other Setup
   -S 2   - Objects
    S 2.1 - Weapons
    S 2.2 - Armor
    S 2.3 - Other Items
   -S 3   - Entities
    S 3.1 - Ghosts
    S 3.2 - Vampires
    S 3.3 - Zombies
   -S 4   - Rooms]

Section 1 - Before Gameplay----------------------------------------------------------------

Section 1.1 - Player Character Setup-------------------------------------------------------

A person has a number called HP.
A person has a number called MaxHP.
A person has a number called defense.
A person has a number called faith.
A person has a number called strength.
A person has a number called dexterity.
A person has a number called stamina.
A person has a number called charisma.
A person has a number called intelligence.
A person has a number called perception.

A person can be a human, a vampire, a ghost or a zombie.

When play begins:
    now the player is a human;
    now the strength of the player is 3 * a random number from 1 to 6;
    now the dexterity of the player is 3 * a random number from 1 to 6;
    now the stamina of the player is 3 * a random number from 1 to 6;
    now the charisma of the player is 3 * a random number from 1 to 6;
    now the intelligence of the player is 3 * a random number from 1 to 6;
    now the perception of the player is 3 * a random number from 1 to 6;
    now the MaxHP of the player is 10;
    now the HP of the player is 10;
    say "[MaxHP of the player].".


Section X - To Be Sorted-------------------------------------------------------------------

Cemetery is a room.
Nonexistence is a room.
[D&D Rules
See "https://www.americanroads.us/DandD/DnD_Basic_Rules_Moldvay.pdf" for details

Dice Rules
type of dice - 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 20
4d6 refers to 4 rolls of d6. Totals are added.
d% is percentage roll - roll d10 for the tens, d10 again for ones.
Ex: roll 7, roll 4 -> 74%

PC rules (player character)
Strength, Dexterity, Stamina, Charisma, Intelligence, Perception
Roll 3d6 for each ability
Pick special abilities
Name character

- Create a limited map of maybe 40 rooms max
- Make rooms appear/disappear on certain conditions
- Weapons, items, and armor can give buffs/debuffs
- Chaos token idea? or use dice to determine results
- Wandering enemies, 3 factions - ghosts, vampires, zombies 
- Final bosses (The Headless Horseman, Dracula, The Lich)
- customizable character, transformation items? (no, probably too hard)

Lich description
A mage becomes a lich by means of necromancy, using a magical receptacle called a phylacter to store the lich's soul.
The process is often described as requiring the creation and consumption of a deadly potion, the Elixir of Defilation. 
The potion invariably kills the drinker but if the process is successful it rises again some days later as an undead Lich. 
Occasionally, this metamorphosis occurs by accident as a result of life-prolonging magic.

Unlike most other forms of undead creatures, the Lich retains all of the memories, personality, and abilities that it possessed in life 
It has a virtual eternity to hone its skills and inevitably becomes very powerful. 
It can summon other lesser undead to protect it. 
A Lich's bones do not decay. 
The Lich is capable of sustaining tremendous physical damage, and is immune to disease, poison, fatigue and other effects that affect only the living. 
However, despite all its undead "gifts", a lich's most valuable resources are its intellect, its sorcery and limitless time.
Since a lich's soul is mystically tied to its phylactery, destroying its body will not kill it. 
Rather, its soul will return to the phylactery, and its body will be recreated by the power keeping it immortal. 
Thus the only way to permanently destroy a lich is to destroy the phylactery as well. 
The phylactery will often be hidden in a secret place and protected by powerful spells, charms, monsters and/or other servants
The phylactery itself is usually of magical nature, meaning its destruction will generally be no easier than obtaining it.

Types of zombies
Draugr    - strong, smelly, blue or pale, can curse (no increase in strength)
          - weak to iron, but not most weapons, fire, faith

Romero    - dumb, need to consume flesh
          - their actions imitate actions in life (eating, going to specific places)
          - weak to fire, headshots

Romero(I) - See Romero, but make smart and intelligent

Types of ghosts (all weak to salt, iron)
Poltergeist - pinch, bite, hit, noise, levitate objects

Phantom - move through walls, ghost-touch (drain life)
        - weak to sun

Possessor - animates nearby objects into a physical form
          - cutting off limbs do work to harm
          - resistance to salt/iron

Types of vampires
Type One vampires are the rarest and most powerful type of vampires. 
    They are human-like in appearance but have two fangs and sometimes, their eyes glow. 
    They possess great strength and speed, an incredibly long lifespan and the ability to hypnotize their victims with their eyes.
    But they also have weaknesses: sunlight burns their skin, they cannot enter a house and drink the owner's blood unless they are invited in first. 
    They are repelled by religious symbols, however, the effectiveness of the symbols depends on the faith of the bearer.
    Prolonged contact with a religious item as well as a stake driven trough the heart will destroy the vampire. 
    When they die, their bodies crumble into a black goo, leaving behind only their fangs. 
    They are able to create Type Two vampires by draining a human of their blood in addition to the bites themselves making a person unclean. 
    If a human drinks the blood of a Type One, they will be able to detect vampires, but become damned, unable to enter churches, being harmed by a holy force like a vampire
Type Two vampires possess great strength and speed but aren't nearly as intelligent as Type Ones and are burned by the sun. 
    They have an extreme hunger and live very short lives. 
    They create other Type Twos by draining humans and can also create Type Threes with a bite.
Type Three vampires are human in appearance, can go out in the sunlight and they get most of their sustenance from regular food. 
    They do drink blood, but they cannot create other vampires. 
    The Type Three bite puts the victims into a trance like state and also has memory-erasing properties. 
    When they die, their bodies turn to dust.

]
