"Desert Survival"

Section 1 - Actions

CheckingStatus is an action applying to nothing.
Understand "check status" or "status check" or "status" or "check" or "sc" or "diagnose" or "diag" as CheckingStatus.
Instead of CheckingStatus: say "Health: [health]/100 [LB]Hunger: [hunger]/100 [LB]Thirst: [thirst]/100 [LB]".

Understand the command "read" as something new. [See Variables, reading-material]
Reading is an action applying to one thing and requiring light.
Understand "read [something]" as reading.
A check reading rule: [examines noun if no reading-material]
    if the reading-material of the noun is "" begin;
        try examining the noun instead; end if.
Carry out reading: say "[reading-material of the noun]". [reads the reading-material]

To say LB: say "[line break]". [creates a line break function. type [LB] in quotes]

Xyzzying is an action applying to nothing. Understand "xyzzy" as xyzzying.
Instead of xyzzying: now the player is in Nameless Room. [Helps debug issues]

Foraging is an action applying to nothing. Understand "forage" as foraging.

Drawing is an action applying to nothing. Understand "draw water" or "draw" or "dw" or "d water" as drawing.
    
Section 2 - Variables

Health is a number that varies. Health is initially 100. [100/100 is good]
Hunger is a number that varies. Hunger is initially 0. [100/100 is bad]
Thirst is a number that varies. Thirst is initially 0. [100/100 is bad]
A thing has some text called reading-material. 
The reading-material of a thing is usually "". [See Actions, reading.]

Section 3 - Items

A foodstuff is a kind of thing. A foodstuff is edible.

A foraged food is a foodstuff. 
A foraged food is in Middle of Nowhere.
The indefinite article of foraged food is "some".
The description of a foraged food is "Some wild greens, covered in spines. While not very common, these will prolong your life in the unbearable desert.".
After eating or drinking a foraged food:
    let x be a random number between 1 and 15;
    let y be a random number between 1 and 15;
    now hunger is hunger - x;
    now thirst is thirst - y;
    if hunger < 0 begin; now hunger is 0; end if;
    if thirst < 0 begin; now thirst is 0; end if.
    now foraged food is in Nameless Room.
    
A rotting meat is a foodstuff.
A rotting meat is in Middle of Nowhere.
The indefinite article of rotting meat is "some".
The description of a rotting meat is "Some dead meat. Now, all meat is dead, but this is the [italic type]gross[roman type] type of dead. Might be edible.".
After eating or drinking a rotting meat:
    let x be a random number between 0 and 20;
    let y be a random number between 0 and 20;
    now hunger is hunger - x;
    now thirst is thirst - y;
    if hunger < 0 begin; now hunger is 0; end if;
    if thirst < 0 begin; now thirst is 0; end if;
    let y be a random number between 10 and 40;
    now health is health - y;
    if health < 0 begin;
        say "[LB]       After the meat touches your lips, you feel some apprehension at consuming the gross, bloody meat. But it is too late. You go about your business for some time, until you are wracked by violent sickness, and you are unable to recover. You kneel, watching as your life leaves you from unknown infection.";
        end the story saying "Maybe you shouldn't eat this next time. It is useful, though.";
        end if;
    now rotting meat is in Nameless Room.
    
A cooked greens is a foodstuff.
A cooked greens is in Middle of Nowhere.
The indefinite article of cooked greens is "some".
The description of cooked greens is "Some cooked greenery. Pretty healthy, and nutritious too.".
After eating or drinking a cooked greens:
    let x be a random number between 10 and 30;
    let y be a random number between 10 and 30;
    now hunger is hunger - x;
    now thirst is thirst - y;
    if hunger < 0 begin; now hunger is 0; end if;
    if thirst < 0 begin; now thirst is 0; end if;
    now cooked greens is in Nameless Room.

A raw meat is a foodstuff.
A raw meat is in Middle of Nowhere.
The indefinite article of raw meat is "some".
The description of raw meat is "Some raw meat, from some animal. Possible parasites within. Best to COOK over a fire."
After eating or drinking a raw meat:
    let x be a random number between 1 and 20;
    let y be a random number between 1 and 10;
    now hunger is hunger - x;
    now thirst is thirst - y;
    if hunger < 0 begin; now hunger is 0; end if;
    if thirst < 0 begin; now thirst is 0; end if;
    let z be a random number between 0 and 100;
    if z < 15 begin;
        say "You don't feel so good...";
        now health is health - 30;
        if health < 0 begin;
            say "[LB]       After the meat touches your lips, you feel some apprehension at consuming the bloody meat. But it is too late. You go about your business for some time, until you are wracked by violent sickness, and you are unable to recover. You kneel, watching as your life leaves you from unknown parasites.";
            end the story saying "The worms ate you from within.";
            end if;
    end if;
    now raw meat is in Nameless Room.

A cooked meat is a foodstuff.
A cooked meat is in Middle of Nowhere.
The indefinite article of cooked meat is "some".
The description of cooked meat is "Some cooked meat, from some animal. It's like wannabe steak.".
After eating or drinking a cooked meat:
    let x be a random number between 10 and 30;
    let y be a random number between 10 and 20;
    now hunger is hunger - x;
    now thirst is thirst - y;
    if hunger < 0 begin; now hunger is 0; end if;
    if thirst < 0 begin; now thirst is 0; end if;
    let z be a random number between 0 and 20;
    now health is health + z;
    now cooked meat is in Nameless Room.

[water sources
life = water, water flows DOWN, rain (duh)
dew, old riverbeds - dig
bag around a plant- plants release water, and it runs down]

Section 4 - Scenes & Scenery

Oasis is scenery. Oasis is in Twin Pools. 
The description of Oasis is "You could FORAGE or DRAW WATER to get some food or water, if you can find some. A handy source of life in a death filled world.".

Section 5 - NPCs

Section 6 - Actual Gameplay Rules

When play begins:
    say "       A letter had shown up in your mailbox. Pulling it out, it was a simple pure white card embossed in gold with words asking for your arrival for an amazing night you would never forget. In smaller print below, it printed the address: Cairo, Egypt. You dismissed the card, and you really didn't care. But another letter showed up, confirming its authenticity... and that this was fully paid for. Excited, you reserved your spot for this Egyptian enigma. A short plane ride away, you would be in another country.[LB]";
    say "       You fell asleep in your first class plane. You startled yourself awake, finding yourself at night over the desert. And just as you convinced yourself everything was all right, the engines exploded. The plane glided, trailing streams of smoke for a short, stressful period of time. And then it hit the ground.[LB]";
    say "       The plane smashed into the sand, demolishing the wings and leaving them behind as it buried itself in the sand. Everyone had died on impact, or shortly after, bleeding out or dying from shock at the sudden speed of everyone's demise. Yet one person survived, crawling out of the wreckage, and staggering away from the steel monument to death, hoping to find survival in the bleakest environments.[LB]".

[stops game from blurting out container contents while container is closed]
Rule for printing room description details of a closed container: stop.
Rule for printing the name of a closed container (called C) while taking inventory:
    say "[printed name of C]"; omit contents in listing.

Before doing anything other than CheckingStatus or looking or eating or drinking:
    let x be a random number between 1 and 8;
    if x is 1 begin; [auto starve]
        now hunger is hunger + 1;
    otherwise; [auto thirst]
        now thirst is thirst + 1;
    end if.

Section 7 - Rooms

Desert is a region. Dry River, Cracked Sandstone, Deep Crevasse, Sheer Cliff, Barren Wasteland, Desertion, Middle of Nowhere, Old Bones, Aridity, Dry Sands, Swirling Sands, Rocky Ground, Cacti Corner, Endless Horizon, Twin Pools are in Desert.
Tomb is a region. Old Skull are in Tomb.
Ruins is a region. Eroded Ruins are in Ruins.
Forgotten Town is a region. 

Eroded Ruins is west of Cracked Sandstone.
The description of Eroded Ruins is "An impressive entrance to an unknown place, it has five intricately carved pillars above a grand entrance. Set into the rock, the stone has relatively minor damage and cracks to it, as this has withstood the test of eternity. The entrance lies to the west, dark and foreboding.".

Old Skull is south of Old Bones. 
The description of Old Skull is "A massive skull of some unknown creature faces southeast. The teeth are several feet long, the eye's gaping sockets creating a sense of unease and awe at the once majestic creature.".

Dry River is north of Cracked Sandstone and west of Barren Wasteland.
The description of Dry  River is "A rather large river runs through the sands and rock to the south, but it has dried out.".

Cracked Sandstone is north of Deep Crevasse and west of Desertion.
The description of Cracked Sandstone is "The dried out river carves its way through the cracked sandstone, creating a crevasse to the south.".

Deep Crevasse is north of Sheer Cliff and west of Middle of Nowhere.
The description of Deep Crevasse is "A deep crevasse opens up below, the sand sometimes blowing down the dark crack in the desert.".

Sheer Cliff is west of Old Bones.
The description of Sheer Cliff is "A sharp dropoff leads down to a deeo crevasse to the north. Best not to trip here, it wouldn't end well.".

Barren Wasteland is north of Desertion and west of Aridity.
The description of Barren Wasteland is "Nothing. Absolute, total, all-emcompassing nothing.".

Desertion is north of Middle of Nowhere and west of Dry Sands.
The description of Desertion is "An empty wasteland, where nothing is alive. It seems life itself has deserted this place.".

Middle of Nowhere is north of Old Bones and west of Swirling Sands.
The printed name of Middle of Nowhere is "The Middle of Nowhere".
The description of Middle of Nowhere is "The vast desert stretches around you. The sand and sun are the only constants in this arid world.".

Old Bones is west of Twin Pools.
The description of Old Bones is "Sun bleached bones lay scattered across the sands, half buried and forgotten by time. It seems to have resembled a massive creature of the sands before it died. The skull lies pointing south.".

Aridity is north of Dry Sands and west of Cacti Corner.
The description of Aridity is "Water is nonexistent. The sands are bleached pure white and the heat haze shimmers around you.".

Dry Sands is north of Swirling Sands and west of Endless Horizon.
The description of Dry Sands is "Not as inhospital as the area to the north, but this is an incredibly dry place. Water is scarce here.".

Swirling Sands is east of Middle of Nowhere and west of Rocky Ground.
The description of Swirling Sands is "The winds slowly drift sand across the dunes, long and linear.".

Twin Pools is south of Swirling Sands and southwest of Rocky Ground.
The description of Twin Pools is "A rocky area, with a little valley. Down in the valley, towards the center, there are two pools, separate but close, still and beautifully clear. An [bold type]oasis[roman type] is situated in the rocks, the two pools providing the much-needed water to the life nearby.".

Cacti Corner is north of Endless Horizon and east of Aridity.
The description of Cacti Corner is "A little edge of the desert, populated by all sorts of rather fun cacti, some blooming with flowers, spotted with fruit, and covered in spines.".

Endless Horizon is north of Rocky Ground.
The description of Endless Horizon is "All around you, all you can see is the ground, the horizon, and the sky. And in the distance? Nothing. Nothing but the horizon, waiting for you to explore.".

Rocky Ground is south of Endless Horizon and south of Cacti Corner.
The description of Rocky Ground is "The sand is flecked with all sorts of rocks, providing some more traction while walking about in this desert.".

Section Number Last ------> random stuff

Nameless Room is a room. The description is "You should not be here.". [Storage for items.]

[ Pharaoh, but not implemented follows below
Pharaoh is a man. "The pharaoh rests, waiting.".
Pharaoh is in Nameless Room.
The description of Pharaoh is "A golden king.".

Every turn: [random movement]
    let D be a random direction;
    try Pharaoh going D.

xtra stuff now
stat bars        - time
possible threats - sandstorms, scorpions, snakes, 
water sources    - cacti, rain?, blood?, dew, google some more.
mission          - rescue (survival win) or defeat pharaoh (rpg win)
fun stuff        - crashed car/airplane?, attacking nomads?, an oasis?, abandoned villages and wells?
locations        - caverns, cliffs, dried out river,

add a pyramid/tomb and shift to an rpg exploring the pyramid/tomb? 
include weapons, mummy enemies, and the pharoah boss enemy for rpg
]
